user/processes/insertRecordTask/InsertRecordTask.md, before:

[< User Instructions](../../Index.md)

# System Task: Insert Record

_This is a task that can be added to a process to insert a record using relevant data from the process._

## Add the task

![](./images/addTask.png)

## Configure Properties

Name the task - The name is used in the process diagram and in the monitoring logs.
Object - Select the Object you wish to insert.

### Setting Values

For each field in the Object you will see a dropdown with options for setting the field value. By default it will be 'not set'. Use this if you want to keep the value blank.
![](./images/setValue.png)

#### Set by Custom Value

Use this if you want to directly set the value. This supports using a custom index value in a connected record field.

#### Set by the root data

This sets the value based on the record that triggered the project. From here you will see a dropdown number of options. All options are available, but you will need to consider the field types.
![](./images/setFrom.png)

- **[primary key]** use this to set a connected record field (_1:M only_) as connected to the root Object. This will only work if the field you are setting is connected to the object you are connecting.
- **field** the first options show any field in the root object. Pick what value you want. If the field you are setting is string numbers and indexes can be used but will be converted to a string
- **object ->** This notation is used to access values from connected records attached to the root object.

#### Set by previous step data

This is similar to using the root data, but instead looks to values in a previous step. This allows you to chain and create multiple related records. The dropdown shows the same options.

#### Set by formula format

This allows a formula to be used to set the value. Both number and text formulas are supported. This requires a specific syntax:

- `startData` - this is to access the record that triggered the process
- `previousData` - this is used to access the record in the previous step
- use `.column` or `["Long Name"]` format to access the fields in the records (note: use column name not label)
- `__relation.` can be used after a connected record field to access fields of the connected record
- For Strings use a `new String()` constructor with a [template string](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/01/ES6-Template-Strings)

**Examples**

- `previousData.Number + 50`
- `` new String(`Hello ${startData["First Name"]} !`) ``
- `` new String(`Team: ${startData.Team__relation.Name}`) ``

Commit message:

Setup Jekyll for GitHub Pages (#6)
* Create _config.yml

* escape liquid tags

* add .gitignore

* Add Jekyll includes and layouts

* Modify .md files for Jekyll

* Style improvements

* Update exisiting docs with yaml front matter

* Update header/footer

* Fix urls

* Add search

* Fix Process Icon

user/processes/insertRecordTask/InsertRecordTask.md, after:

---
title: System Task&#58; Insert Record
description: dynamically create records from a process
category: process
---
This is a task that can be added to a process to insert a record using relevant data from the process.

## Add the task

![](./images/addTask.png)

## Configure Properties

Name the task - The name is used in the process diagram and in the monitoring logs.
Object - Select the Object you wish to insert.

### Setting Values

For each field in the Object you will see a dropdown with options for setting the field value. By default it will be 'not set'. Use this if you want to keep the value blank.
![](./images/setValue.png)

#### Set by Custom Value

Use this if you want to directly set the value. This supports using a custom index value in a connected record field.

#### Set by the root data

This sets the value based on the record that triggered the project. From here you will see a dropdown number of options. All options are available, but you will need to consider the field types.
![](./images/setFrom.png)

- **[primary key]** use this to set a connected record field (_1:M only_) as connected to the root Object. This will only work if the field you are setting is connected to the object you are connecting.
- **field** the first options show any field in the root object. Pick what value you want. If the field you are setting is a string, numbers and indexes can be used but will be converted to a string
- **object ->** This notation is used to access values from connected records attached to the root object.

#### Set by previous step data

This is similar to using the root data, but instead looks to values in a previous step. This allows you to chain and create multiple related records. The dropdown shows the same options.

#### Set by formula format

This allows a formula to be used to set the value. Both number and text formulas are supported. This requires a specific syntax:

- `startData` - this is to access the record that triggered the process
- `previousData` - this is used to access the record in the previous step
- use `.column` or `["Long Name"]` format to access the fields in the records (note: use column name not label)
- `__relation.` can be used after a connected record field to access fields of the connected record
- For Strings use a `new String()` constructor with a [template string](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/01/ES6-Template-Strings)

**Examples**

- `previousData.Number + 50`
- `` new String(`Hello ${startData["First Name"]} !`) ``
- `` new String(`Team: ${startData.Team__relation.Name}`) ``

## Multiple Instances
This task can be repeated multiple times using the bpmn multiple instance marker ({% include icon.html i='fa-bars' %}).

Add the marker from the wrench ({% include icon.html i='fa-wrench' %}) menu on the task. After adding the marker a **repeat** option is available in the task properties. A connected record field (from the process object) can be selected. This will cause the task to repeat for each connected record attached to the process object. The connected record values are available to set the inserted values, using the 'Instance Data'.
